# Setup

This document describes how to setup all the parts of the MapSwipe back-end for the first time.

1. Firebase
2. Postgres
3. MapSwipe Workers
4. API
5. Manager Dashboard


For all those setups our main repository is required:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mapswipe/python-mapswipe-workers.git
cd python-mapswipe-workers
```


## Firebase Setup

<!--
Credentials
* firebase project id
* firebase web api key
* firebase admin sdk service account file
* firebase database rules json file
-->

First a Firebase Project and Database has to be created.

1. Login to [Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/)
2. Add a project
3. Create a database: `> Develop > Database > Create Database`


### Deploy Database Rules and Functions

The Firebase setup consists of two parts:

- Firebase Database Rules (`firebase/database.rules.json`)
- Firebase Functions (`firbase/functions/`)

To deploy them to the Firebase Project the Firebase Command Line Tools are requiered. They are preinstalled in the provided Docker image (`firebase/Dockerfile`). When running this image the database riles and the functions will be deployed. For this to work a Firebase Token is needed:

1. On a PC with a browser install the Firebase Command Line Tools ([https://firebase.google.com/docs/cli/](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cli/#install_the_firebase_cli))
2. Run `firebase login:ci` to generate a Firebase Token.
3. Save the Firebase Token to `.env` at the root of the cloned MapSwipe Backend repository on the server: `echo "FIREBASE_TOKEN=your_token" >> .env`

Once the Firebase Token is set the database rules and functions will be deployed when running the `firebase_deploy` docker image using `docker-compose`:

```
docker-compose up --build -d firebase_deploy
```

This container needs to run only as long until the `firebase deploy` command inside the Docker container terminates. Use `docker logs firebase_deploy` to find out if the command is still running.

For more information about the Firebase Command Line Tools visit:[https://firebase.google.com/docs/cli/](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cli/#install_the_firebase_cli)


## Postgres Setup

In the `postgres` directory is an `initdb.sql` file for initializing a Postgres database.

When running Postgres using the provided Dockerfile it will setup a Postgres database during the build.
A Postgres password has to be defined in an environment file (`.env`) in the same directory as the `docker-compose.yaml` file (root). E.g:

```
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mapswipe
```

To run the Postgres Docker container:

```
docker-compose up -d postgres
```

The Postgres instance will be exposed to `postgres:5432` (postgres Docker network)


### Backup

To backup the Postgres MapSwipe database use the `backup.sh` script inside the `./postgres` directory. It will execute a command (`pgdump`) inside the Postgres Docker container and store the backup locally (outside the Docker container).


## MapSwipe Workers Setup

To run MapSwipe Workers a valid configuration (`config/configuration.json`) and the Firebase Service Account Key (`config/serviceAccountKey.json`) is required.


### Configuration

Edit the configuration file (`config/example-configuration.json`) and rename it to `configuration.json`.

Example configuration for the Firebase section:

```json
"firebase": {
  "database_name": "dev-mapswipe",
}
```

Among other variables in the configuration file following are mandatory:

- bing maps url
- bing maps api key
- digital globe url
- digital globe api key
- sinergise url
- sinergise api key

These variables are optional:

- slack token
- slack channel
- slack username


###  Firebase Service Account Key

To authorize MapSwipe Workers to access Firebase services, you must generate a Firerbase Service Account Key in JSON format:

1. In the Firebase console, open Settings > Service Accounts.
2. Click Generate New Private Key
3. Store the JSON file under `config/serviceAccountKey.json`


### Run MapSwipe Workers

```bash
docker-compose up -d mapswipe_workers
```


## Manager Dashboard

Get **Web API Key**: `> Settings > Project settings > General`. Add the web api key to the `.env` file.

```
docker-compose up -d manager_dashboard
```


## API

Currently the API is a simple Nginx server which serves static files. Those files are generated by MapSwipe Workers and shared over a Docker volume with the API Container.

```
docker-compose up -d api
```


## Lets Encrypt

To enable SSL for the API and MapSwipe Manager Dashboard use Certbot to issue standalone certificates.

### Certbot

Install certbot:

```bash
apt-get install certbot
```


Create certificates:

```bash
certbot certonly \
    --standalone \
    --domain dev-api.mapswipe.org \
    --domain dev-managers.mapswipe.org \
    --agree-tos \
    --email e@mail.org \
    --non-interactive
```


Enable and start Certbot systemd timer for renewal of certificates:

```bash
systemctl enable certbot.timer
systemctl start certbot.timer
# To check if certbot.timer is enabled run:
systemctl list-units --type timer | grep certbot
```


Add renewal post hook to reload nginx after certificate renwal:

```bash
mkdir -p /etc/letsencrypt/renewal-hooks/deploy

cat <<EOM >/etc/letsencrypt/renewal-hooks/deploy/nginx
#!/usr/bin/env bash

docker container restart nginx
EOM

chmod +x /etc/letsencrypt/renewal-hooks/deploy/nginx
```

### Run Nginx

```bash
docker-compose up -d nginx
```

<!--
Using the certbot plugin dnf-google:

```bash
sudo apt install python3-certbot-dns-google
certbot certonly \
    --dns-google \
    --dns-google-credentials certbot.json \
    --server https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory \
    --domain *.mapswipe.org \
    --agree-tos \
    --email herfort@uni-heidelberg.de
    --non-interactive
```


Dockerize it:

```bash
sudo docker run -it --rm --name certbot \
            -v "/etc/letsencrypt:/etc/letsencrypt" \
            -v "/var/lib/letsencrypt:/var/lib/letsencrypt" \
            certbot/dns-google certonly \
            --dns-google \
            --dns-google-credentials ~/.secrets/certbot/google.json \
            --domain *.mapswipe.org \
            --server https://acme-v02.api.letsencrypt.org/directory \
            --agree-tos \
            --email herfort@uni-heidelberg.de \
            --non-interactive
```
-->
